

Use the import wizards when:
You are loading less than 50,000 rec.

data loader
Support for large files with up to 5 million records
Detailed success and error log files in CSV format
batch size : The maximum is 200 records. 
if the Use Bulk API option - cant insert Null values ->instead use #N/A.
Query request size : The default is 500; the minimum is 200, and the maximum is 2,000
Use European date format for  dd/MM/yyyy
cant Allow field truncation in bulk api 
we can hard delete records when you configure Data Loader to Use Bulk API. 
Keep in mind that hard deleted records are immediately deleted
Start at row - start from where it failed
Bulk API in Data Loader allows you to load or delete a large number of records
-faster than using the default SOAP-based API
Data Loader doesn’t support nested queries or querying child objects
Data Loader doesn’t support queries that use polymorphic relationships.
Data Loader currently does not support exporting attachments
If you select compound fields for export in the Data Loader, they cause error messages. 
To export values, use individual field components.
5-minute limit to process 100 records when the Bulk API is enabled.
if more than 10 mins places the remainder of the file back in the queue for later processing
reprocessed up to 10 times before the operation is permanently marked as failed. 

attachments : 
Schedule Export page, select Include Attachments to include the Attachment.csv file in your export from 
source org.

sample 
ParentId,Name,Body
50030000000VDowAAG,attachment1.jpg,C:\Export\attachment1.gif
If you intend to upload with Bulk API, verify that Upload Bulk API Batch as Zip File on the Settings

Upload Content with the Data Loader
upload documents and links into libraries 

document:
VersionData identifies the location and extracts the format,
and PathOnClient identifies the type of document being uploaded.

link: 
upload a link using the Data Loader, specify the URL in ContentUrl. 

You can’t export content using the Data Loader.
if you’re updating content
Include a ContentDocumentId column with an 18-character ID. 
