Using Salesforce Features with Apex: 
    Actions: 
    Create actions -  let users create records
    Custom actions - invoke Lightning components, flows, Visualforce pages, or canvas apps with  custom functionality    
    global custom actions - for tasks that don’t require users to use records that have a relationship to a specific object.
    Object-specific custom actions - let users interact with or create records that have a relationship to an object record
    create, Log a Call, and custom actions, you can create either object-specific actions or global actions.
    Update actions must be object-specific.

    Create Global Quick Actions:
    Global create actions enable users to create object records, but the new record has (no direct relationship) with other records.
    Global quick actions (aren’t context-aware), so fields can’t be populated with information from the current page.
    Instead, add the appropriate quick action to a page to (specify predefined fields).
    Global actions live on a special layout of their own, known as the (global publisher layout)
    object page layout isn’t customized - > he actions on those object record pages are inherited from the global publisher layout.
    different things with global quick actions:
        add a Send Email action to the global layout -> use anywhere in Lightning exp.
        *You can’t add a global Send Email action to the Cases layout or use the action with cases.*
        Add Log a Call actions to global layouts
        In Lightning Experience, Log a Call actions on global layouts display in the Global Actions menu.
        * have only one Log A Call action else mobile see full Task layout*
        Canvas apps in custom actions require Publisher as a location.
        Lightning components in custom actions, you must have My Domain deployed
        Visualforce pages  in  custom actions, cant have standard controllers.
        you want a custom action where 
                                users enter a street address,
                                see a map,
                                the local time 
                                and the local weather    - use VF page with no standard controller.

                             